hey everyone laszlo Montgomery again
here with another nice Chong you for
your Chinese sayings collection this one
today goes back to the tongue dynasty
late 7th century this is another classic
Chinese saying or Chung you that is it's
four characters long and strung together
into some kind of meaningless phrase
ching ching through 12 invite the
gentleman into the urn Ching in this
case means to invite a gin is a
gentleman root means into or to enter
and a one is a kind of an earthenware
vase or earn these can be very big you
could you could fit a person inside one
ching ching Roo one invite gentleman
enter vase dang if there's no story
behind these four characters I'll eat my
hat well indeed there is and it was told
in the Song Dynasty this Chung you come
straight from the de jure tongue gin the
masterwork written by Simha Guang and a
host of other scholars working almost
two decades to produce the most
authoritative history of China going
back to the earliest times in English
it's often referred to as the
comprehensive mirror in aid of
governance in 1084 was presented to the
Emperor Hsien song there's a scroll in
the dirt on gin called the tang chi the
annals of tongue and in scroll number
121 there's the story about a gentleman
named Joe Shing he was like a khong chun
kind of a character i covered khong chun
in an old China history podcast episode
he was chairman mao's chief of secret
police at one time in a very hated and
despised person from ccp history a lot
of people were falsely accused and
suffered terribly at kong Chung's hands
he was thrown out of the party
posthumously back in the tang dynasty
there was joshing his boss was none
other than the only Empress in all the
thousands of years of Chinese history to
rule in her own name as the Emperor of a
dynasty there were plenty of Empress
dowager's Andrey
jen's but no one not even the Empress
dowager's she could say they ruled and
held the official top spot in the
imperial government only one person had
bragging rights to that claim to fame
and that was the Empress woods attend
our story takes place in the year 691
the year previous woods ettienne had set
up her 15-year joe dynasty it lasted
until her death in 705 since the
entirety of this dynasty consisted only
of herself hoots attends Joe dynasty
gets air quotes around the word dynasty
hoots ettienne was covered in another
ancient podcast episode so I won't go
into details here but suffice to say she
had to step over a lot of dead bodies to
get to where she ultimately ended up she
was ruthless and stopped at nothing to
get what she wanted when she finally had
neutralized all her enemies she still
maintained a very effective and fared
secret police well what secret police
isn't feared and her guy was one of the
true villains of Chinese history not
very well known but this police chief
lied Jin Chen had a well-earned
reputation for extracting confessions
from accused criminals in fact once you
were put into one of his torture
chambers whether you committed the crime
or we're just being falsely accused
everyone confessed even though she had
killed practically everyone who could
possibly be a threat to her Woods attend
sat uneasily on her throne in beautiful
chung anh there were more rumors flying
around Chung on about who was making a
move against who well one day someone
told someone that they heard from
someone that Joe Shing the police chief
had been in cahoots with the turncoat
general Choe Shan ji general Choe had
been recently executed for plotting
against woots attend well Empress Wu
called lodging Chun to the palace and
said she heard Joe Shing was up to
something and to go investigate and
interrogate him Joe Cheng was another
secret police official and he worked
under lie jin chen and had also
developed quite a
terrifying reputation for his
one-hundred percent conviction record
and his ways of extracting confessions
his reputation was well earned and there
were plenty of stories about all these
innocent people who were wrongly
convicted and brutally executed at the
hands of Joe Shing salai chin chan
invites joe seeing to the palace for a
lunch and some vino and joe SHIING and
light jin chen of course knew each other
and we're already good buds while
they're engaged and they're drinking
like jin chen casually says to Joe Shing
I'm gonna tell you man I've been having
the damnedest time trying to extract
confessions from some of these accused I
try everything and sometimes they still
refuse people say you're the master
what's what's your tried-and-true method
of getting people to talk Joe she
answered the urn this one never fails i
get a big ern and I heat it with white
coals on four sides but first before I
light the fires I stick the accused
inside the urn and as soon as it heats
up enough now they're screaming out
their confessions then I execute him
light rain Chen said brilliant I never
thought of that then he calls out to
some of his underlings and demands and
earned be brought out and get a fire
going as joe sheng described cho chang
was wondering what's going on here ly
jun chen said you know law Joe Empress
Wu heard from one of her peoples that
you were conspiring with Joe Sheehan Jin
against the state Joe Shing said you
know this is preposterous and just you
know wild comments made by his enemies
he totally denied everything so light
you and chance at the Joe Shing okay
then in that case please get inside this
urn with Joe she knew right away where
this was heading lie jun-chan was using
Jang's gruesome interrogation methods
against him and now the tables were
turned and he was being forced to suffer
the same torture he inflicted on others
or as we say he was getting a taste of
his own medicine well Joe 'seeing threw
himself on the ground before Lee Jin
Chen and coat out furiously confessing
to everything and admitting his guilt
lie Jin Chen had him remanded over to
the authorities and
beautifully reported his findings two
Woot's attend the Empress must have been
having a good day because she considered
Joe shins past loyalty to her and being
there at key times as she was clawing
her way to the top so she didn't call
for his execution she banished him
instead so his life was ruined and as he
began making his way to his place of
Exile leaving the splendid life of
Cheong on behind word had gotten out of
course and many of his enemies were
lying and wait for him when they found
him they made fast work of Joe Shing and
killed him soul I jun-chan was giving
Joe seeing a taste of his own medicine
by inviting the gentleman into the urn
the same method of torture that Joe
Shing often used against those he dealt
with so when you say Ching June drew one
that means someone is suffering the same
grisly fate using the method that he had
reserved for someone else or to fall
into one's own trap so to speak Ching
June grew one classic lied you in Chen
by the way he too got caught up in a
scandal and ended up getting executed
and if you think people hated Joe Shing
get a load of what they did to lie chin
chun after he met his end it said some
of his enemies which he had plenty
ripped apart his body and ate his flesh
and ripped out his organs yikes on that
note I will leave you this is laszlo
Montgomery signing off from sunny and
beautiful la California check out the
China history podcast and the China
vintage shower all available at teacup
dot media Chinese culture all the time
until the next time is I me I hope
you'll keep coming back for more here at
the Chinese sayings podcast